README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">C - Standards</h1>

<p align="center">
  <img width="200" height="200" src="docs/standards.PNG">
</p>

[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/joshuacrotts/C-Standards/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/joshuacrotts/C-Standards) ![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards) ![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards) ![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards)  ![](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards) ![](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards?category=files) [![GitHub issues open](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards)]() 
[![GitHub issues closed](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed-raw/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards)]()

C - Standards is the continuation of the Standards game library, originally written in Java. While not all features are implemented such as handlers, the basic necessities for creating a game are completely here. All data structures for entity-handling/updating/drawing should be drawn by the programmer, but these structures should come at a future date. SDL is the back-end graphical library for this engine.

## Dependencies

The only dependencies for this library are SDL components.

1. [SDL_2.0.12](https://www.libsdl.org/download-2.0.php)
2. [SDL_ttf 2.0.15 (Fonts)](https://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_ttf/)
3. [SDL_mixer 2.0.4 (Audio)](https://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_mixer/)
4. [SDL_image 2.0.5 (PNG/JPG Wrapper)](https://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_image/)

## Rebuilding C - Standards

**Windows**: To rebuild the code, clone the repository to your computer. This project is compiled with MinGW and a makefile. Depending on how you want to compile the project (e.g. with Visual Studio, CodeBlocks, etc.), you may need to alter the makefile to suit your needs. Downloading and installing the dependencies on Windows takes a little more effort than MacOS or Linux:
1. Download [mingw-get-setup.exe](https://osdn.net/projects/mingw/releases/).
2. Install all packages except mingw32-gcc-ada-base, mingw32-gcc-fortran-base, and mingw32-gcc-objc-base through the installer.
3. Download the four libraries above. The SDL2.0.12 link only provides a DLL file. The rest come in a .tar.gz file to extract. Make sure to choose the MinGW developer version.
4. Inside these archives exists two folders: an i686-w64, and x86_64-w64 version. Choose the former (i686-w64). This is the 32-bit version, which is what we will use.
5. There are three folders in each extension: bin, include, and lib. The bin/ folder provides the .dll files. Store these in C:/MinGW/bin. The include/ folder has an SDL2 folder with the respective .h file. Drag the SDL2 folder into C:/MinGW/include (do not take the .h file out!). Lastly, the lib/ folder contains necessary libraries (.a files) that accompany the addon. Drag these into C:/MinGW/lib.
6. At this point, your code should be good to go. If you are using VSCode, make sure to set the compiler to gcc-x86, and set the compiler path to C:/MinGW/bin/gcc.exe. Compile the code via mingw32-make.

**MacOS**: For MacOS, run the following commands in your terminal to get the appropriate development files for SDL:

1. <code>brew install SDL2</code>
2. <code>brew install SDL2_image</code>
3. <code>brew install SDL2_ttf</code>
4. <code>brew install SDL2_mixer</code>

Then, compile via <code>make</code>.

**Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)**: The process is similar to the former, with the exception of having to install SDL files to your system in Linux. Run the following commands (or their distro-equivalent) in your terminal:

1. <code>sudo apt-get install libsdl2-dev</code>
2. <code>sudo apt-get install libsdl2-image-dev</code>
3. <code>sudo apt-get install libsdl2-ttf-dev</code>
4. <code>sudo apt-get install libsdl2-mixer-dev</code>

Then, compile via <code>make</code>.

## Reporting Bugs

See the Issues Tab.

## Version History
The **master** branch encompasses all changes. The **development** branch has in-progress additions and updates that are not yet ready for the master branch.

Commit message:

Added Arch-linux support, added a few new comments, fixed some formatting issues.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">C - Standards</h1>

<p align="center">
  <img width="200" height="200" src="docs/standards.PNG">
</p>

[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/joshuacrotts/C-Standards/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/joshuacrotts/C-Standards) ![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards) ![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards) ![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards)  ![](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards) ![](https://tokei.rs/b1/github/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards?category=files) [![GitHub issues open](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards)]() 
[![GitHub issues closed](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed-raw/JoshuaCrotts/C-Standards)]()

C - Standards is the continuation of the Standards game library, originally written in Java. While not all features are implemented such as handlers, the basic necessities for creating a game are completely here. All data structures for entity-handling/updating/drawing should be drawn by the programmer, but these structures should come at a future date. SDL is the back-end graphical library for this engine.

## Dependencies

The only dependencies for this library are SDL components.

1. [SDL_2.0.12](https://www.libsdl.org/download-2.0.php)
2. [SDL_ttf 2.0.15 (Fonts)](https://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_ttf/)
3. [SDL_mixer 2.0.4 (Audio)](https://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_mixer/)
4. [SDL_image 2.0.5 (PNG/JPG Wrapper)](https://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_image/)

## Rebuilding C - Standards

**Windows**: To rebuild the code, clone the repository to your computer. This project is compiled with MinGW and a makefile. Depending on how you want to compile the project (e.g. with Visual Studio, CodeBlocks, etc.), you may need to alter the makefile to suit your needs. Downloading and installing the dependencies on Windows takes a little more effort than MacOS or Linux:
1. Download [mingw-get-setup.exe](https://osdn.net/projects/mingw/releases/).
2. Install all packages except mingw32-gcc-ada-base, mingw32-gcc-fortran-base, and mingw32-gcc-objc-base through the installer.
3. Download the four libraries above. The SDL2.0.12 link only provides a DLL file. The rest come in a .tar.gz file to extract. Make sure to choose the MinGW developer version.
4. Inside these archives exists two folders: an i686-w64, and x86_64-w64 version. Choose the former (i686-w64). This is the 32-bit version, which is what we will use.
5. There are three folders in each extension: bin, include, and lib. The bin/ folder provides the .dll files. Store these in C:/MinGW/bin. The include/ folder has an SDL2 folder with the respective .h file. Drag the SDL2 folder into C:/MinGW/include (do not take the .h file out!). Lastly, the lib/ folder contains necessary libraries (.a files) that accompany the addon. Drag these into C:/MinGW/lib.
6. At this point, your code should be good to go. If you are using VSCode, make sure to set the compiler to gcc-x86, and set the compiler path to C:/MinGW/bin/gcc.exe. Compile the code via mingw32-make.

**MacOS**: For MacOS, run the following commands in your terminal to get the appropriate development files for SDL:

1. <code>brew install SDL2</code>
2. <code>brew install SDL2_image</code>
3. <code>brew install SDL2_ttf</code>
4. <code>brew install SDL2_mixer</code>

Then, compile via <code>make</code>.

**Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)**: The process is similar to the former, with the exception of having to install SDL files to your system in Linux. Run the following commands (or their distro-equivalent) in your terminal:

1. <code>sudo apt-get install libsdl2-dev</code>
2. <code>sudo apt-get install libsdl2-image-dev</code>
3. <code>sudo apt-get install libsdl2-ttf-dev</code>
4. <code>sudo apt-get install libsdl2-mixer-dev</code>

Then, compile via <code>make</code>.

**Linux (Arch-Based Distros)**: Run the following commands after cloning the repo to install SDL2:

1. <code>sudo pacman -S sdl2</code>
2. <code>sudo pacman -S sdl2_image</code>
3. <code>sudo pacman -S sdl2_ttf</code>
4. <code>sudo pacman -S sdl2_mixer</code>

Then, compile via <code>make</code>.

## Reporting Bugs

See the Issues Tab.

## Version History
The **master** branch encompasses all changes. The **development** branches have in-progress additions and updates that are not yet ready for the master branch. Each person on the project has a respective development branch with their name as the suffix. Please work on only your branch. Additionally, if you are not on the immediate team, you can create a fork of the project, then submit a pull request for review.
